THE VINEYARD

SKILLS
	Grit
		Toughness
		Melee
		Stamina
	Finesse
		Dodge
		Mobility
		Drive
	Acuity
		Survival
		Comtech
		Medical
	Sense
		Observation
		Range
		Insight

CHECKS:
	Pick a skill, Referee determines the base effect
	Roll a number of d6
		+1d for each pip in the chosen skill
		+1d if receiving help
	Look at the highest die rolled
		On a 1-3, you fumble
		On a 4 or 5, you succeed with a consequence
		On a 6, you succeed
		If you roll multiple 6s, you get a critical success, and take +effect. You gain 1 momentum for every 6 rolled after the first, to a cap of 3.

EFFECT LEVELS:
	0: Zero effect
	1: Limited
	2: Standard
	3: Great
	4: Excellent

COMBAT
	Each round of combat is made up of the following phases:
		Beginning of Round
		Fast Turns
		Fast Monster Turns
		Slow Turns
		Slow Monster Turns
		End of Round

	BEGINNING OF ROUND:
		At the beginning of the round, resolve any triggers, then each player chooses Fast Turn or Slow Turn.
	FAST TURNS:
		All players who chose Fast Turn may either act or move once during this phase. Players determine the order in which this is done amongst themselves. Once a player has begun acting or moving, they must finish before another player can act or move.
	FAST MONSTER TURNS:
		Monsters may move or act during this phase.
	SLOW TURNS:
		All players who chose Slow Turn may both act and move once each during this phase. As with Fast Turns, players determine the order in which this is done amongst themselves, and once a player has begun acting or moving, they must finish before another player can act or move.
	SLOW MONSTER TURNS:
		Monsters who did nothing during the Fast Monster Turns phase may move and act during this phase.
	END OF ROUND:
		Resolve any triggers.

	PLAYER ACT:
		Players can act to attack, use gear, or interact with objects.
	PLAYER MOVEMENT:
		Players move a number of spaces equal to their movement. -- Zones!?
	ATTACKING:
		To make an attack, declare the target(s) and weapon(s). Make a Grit Check, taking account of bonuses and penalties from weapon choice, target, and environment. On a success, the target takes harm with level equal to your effect. On a mixed success, you suffer the weapon's listed consequence.  All weapons by default have 0 effect, and the default consequence is "You are Left Open (attacks against you get +d until your next turn)".
	MOMENTUM ACTIONS:
		Each player also has access to the following Momentum Actions. Each one may be activated once per round, and each one may be activated at any time during the round. If a Momentum Action is activated during another creature's action, that Momentum Ability is resolved first.
			SURGE - Spend 1 Momentum: Perform 1 action immediately. The action cannot require more than 10 seconds. Actions that can be chosen include attacking, setting a trap, or surveying a field. Actions that cannot be chosen include picking a lock, reading a book, or having a conversation.
			DASH - Spend 1 Momentum: Move up to your speed.
			DODGE - Spend 1 Momentum: Receive no harm from 1 incoming attack.

	whenever a player would take damage, if they have armor, they can mark an armor box and nullify the damage
	If a player suffers level 4 harm, they suffer a random Long Term Consequence, and cannot participate in any activities until next dawn.
	Physical
		Lose an eye
		Lose an arm
		ruptured tendon
		break arm
		broken rib
		dismembered leg
		broken leg
	Psychological
		Fear of sharp things
		Anxiety
		Coprolalia
		Fear of the Dark
		Hemophobia
		Always moving
		Indecision (-1d)
		Monster Panic
		Rage

EQUIPMENT
	Bandages
	Axe
	Molotov Cocktail - Complicated

	Melee Weapon []
	Throwing Knives []
	Armor [][]
	Lantern []
	Boards
	Filtermask - Scavenge has +1 effect (cannot exceed 2 effect this way)

ORIGIN
	Each player adds 1 to three different stats

HERITAGE
	Core World
	Militant world
	Cyberpunk world
	Pastoral world
	Spacer colony
	frozen world
	scattered people

DAYLIGHT
	threats & resolution outside of the night should be without combat

	Each morning, every player who did not mark a level-4 harm the previous night reduce all harm by 1 and gain 1 xp. Then, all players mark level 1 harm: Hungry.
	While scavenging, players will find Supply. Players can spend supply to eat, refuel the generator, or reload a weapon
	SURVEY: Each day, events are revealed around the map
	Each day, each player can perform two actions
		Raid
		Scout
		Scavenge
			Roll on your best skill.
				Determine supply gained by effect level:
					Zero: None
					Limited: 1
					Standard: 1d3
					Great: 2d3
					Extreme: 2d4

				On a mixed success, choose one:
					You suffer level-2 harm of the referee's choice and find supply.
					You lose a day action (only if this is your first action of the day) and find supply.
					You return empty-handed.

				On a success, choose one:
					You take +1 effect and find supply.
					You find supply and a place to relax (reduce one harm 1 level).
					You find supply and something useful (referee's choice).

				On a critical success, you either find an item of your choice, or choose two from above.
			If multiple people work together on an outing, choose a leader. Each team member makes a roll. The result is the best result, but the leader suffers level 1 harm for each fumble rolled.
		Rest
			During this time, you can take any of the following actions once each:
				Cook: Spend 1 supply and reduce all harm 1 level.
				Study: use an object you've obtained to gain information.
				Craft: Choose a recipe you know. If the recipe is simple, you do it. If the recipe is complicated, spend 1 supply and roll on Acuity:
					On a fumble, you waste the resources.
					On a mixed success, you do it, but choose 1:
						the created item has -1 effect (if applicable)
						halved amount (if applicable)
						you suffer level 1 harm of the referee's choice.
					On a success, you do it.
					On a critical success, you do it, and choose one:
						the created item has +1 effect (if applicable)
						doubled amount
						you manage to minimize resource cost, regain the supply spent.

				Base recipes:
					Filter mask

		Players can acquire new sequences for the replicator to print.
		WHEN you use a Fine item, take +1 effect

	Base has
		Generator that requires fuel
			Every Raid may acquire 2/3 Night fuel on average per person
		Healing upgrades: oven, well

ENEMIES
	Dogs, 2 damage. 1 damage recoils them
	Creeping Mold / Ants
	Siren, screams causing deafness and blindness
	Wolf - Priority token
		(give players a way to fuck with priority tokens)
	L4D Special infected

	Encounters should answer the following questions:
		- What makes splitting up a bad idea?
		- What makes the players do it anyway?
			Enemies that must be approached
			Enemies that attack the generator

Annapurna
