THE VINEYARD

SITUATION:
	UWP: E47720H-4
	Players are stranded on a rimworld. The rimworld is characterized by:
		Trees
		An atmosphere requiring air filters
		Mechanized technology - Guns, computers, antiseptics
		Hostile lifeforms, more active during the night, which will not or cannot kill the players
		

SKILLS:
	Grit (GR)
		One's ability to strengthen their body through aura
	Finesse (FN)
		One's ability to boost the fidelity of their body through aura
	Acuity (AC)
		One's experience and mental insight; one's ability to use aura to change how they are percieved
	Influence (IN)
		One's charisma and persuasiveness, through charm, deceipt, or menace.
	Psionics (PS) / Forecast
		One's ability to project forth their aura to create unique effects

CHECKS:
	Pick a skill, Referee determines the base effect
	Roll a number of d6
		+1d for each pip in the chosen skill
		+1d if receiving help
	Look at the highest die rolled
		On a 1-3, you fumble
		On a 4 or 5, you succeed with a consequence
		On a 6, you succeed
		If you roll multiple 6s, you get a critical success, and take +effect. You gain 1 momentum for every 6 rolled after the first, to a cap of 3.
		
EFFECT LEVELS:
	0: Zero effect
	1: Limited
	2: Standard
	3: Great
	4: Excellent

COMBAT
	Each round of combat is made up of the following phases:
		Beginning of Round
		Fast Turns
		Fast Monster Turns
		Slow Turns
		Slow Monster Turns
		End of Round
	
	BEGINNING OF ROUND:
		At the beginning of the round, resolve any triggers, then each player chooses Fast Turn or Slow Turn. 
	FAST TURNS:
		All players who chose Fast Turn may either act or move once during this phase. Players determine the order in which this is done amongst themselves. Once a player has begun acting or moving, they must finish before another player can act or move.
	FAST MONSTER TURNS:
		Monsters may move or act during this phase.
	SLOW TURNS:
		All players who chose Slow Turn may both act and move once each during this phase. As with Fast Turns, players determine the order in which this is done amongst themselves, and once a player has begun acting or moving, they must finish before another player can act or move.
	SLOW MONSTER TURNS:
		Monsters who did nothing during the Fast Monster Turns phase may move and act during this phase.
	END OF ROUND:
		Resolve any triggers.
		
	PLAYER ACT:
		Players can act to attack, use gear, or interact with objects.
	PLAYER MOVEMENT:
		Players move a number of spaces equal to their movement. -- Zones!?
	ATTACKING:
		To make an attack, declare the target(s) and weapon(s). Make a Grit Check, taking account of bonuses and penalties from weapon choice, target, and environment. On a success, the target takes harm with level equal to your effect. On a mixed success, you suffer the weapon's listed consequence.  All weapons by default have 0 effect, and the default consequence is "You are Left Open (attacks against you get +d until your next turn)".
	MOMENTUM ACTIONS:
		Each player also has access to the following Momentum Actions. Each one may be activated once per round, and each one may be activated at any time during the round. If a Momentum Action is activated during another creature's action, that Momentum Ability is resolved first.
			SURGE - Spend 1 Momentum: Perform 1 action immediately. The action cannot require more than 10 seconds. Actions that can be chosen include attacking, setting a trap, or surveying a field. Actions that cannot be chosen include picking a lock, reading a book, or having a conversation.
			DASH - Spend 1 Momentum: Move up to your speed.
			DODGE - Spend 1 Momentum: Receive no harm from 1 incoming attack.
			
	whenever a player would take damage, if they have armor, they can mark an armor box and nullify the damage
	If a player suffers level 4 harm, they suffer a random Long Term Consequence, and cannot participate in any activities until next dawn.
	Physical
		Lose an eye
		Lose an arm
		ruptured tendon
		break arm
		broken rib
		dismembered leg
		broken leg
	Psychological
		Fear of sharp things
		Anxiety
		Coprolalia
		Fear of the Dark
		Hemophobia
		Always moving
		Indecision (-1d)
		Monster Panic
		Rage

EQUIPMENT
	Bandages
	Axe
	Molotov Cocktail - Complicated

	Melee Weapon []
	Throwing Knives []
	Armor [][]
	Lantern []
	Boards
	Filtermask - Scavenge has +1 effect (cannot exceed 2 effect this way)

ORIGIN
	Each player adds 1 to three different stats

	Soldier CUTTER - FIGHTER
		1 1 0 0 0
		Recipes:
			Heavy Stick
			Manacles
			Chain
			Armor - Complicated
		When you cook, erase a level-1 harm.
		When you scavenge and succeed, each teammate takes 1 momentum.
		When you scavenge and succeed, you can additionally choose the following option:
			You find supply and a weapon (referee's choice).
		Spend special armor to surge or dodge
		Spend 1 Momentum: take the damage a teammate would have taken. Reduce the damage 1 level.
		Higher load limits [5/7/8]
		Pull aggro / taunt
		+1d to intimidate
		Morning person +1 momentum
		
	Surveyor HOUND
		1 0 1 0 0
		Recipes:
			Homemade Rifle - Complicated
			Beartrap
			Chain Trap
		Spend 1 Momentum: double weapon range.
		If you would lose track of someone, spend your special armor to keep tracking them.
		When you roll Acuity to locate a target, you get +1 effect.
		When you hide in a prepared position or use camouflage, you get +1d to rolls to avoid detection.
		If you would mark Hungry as a level-2 harm or higher, you do not mark harm.
		Better at finding areas to scavenge
		When you scout, take 1 Momentum.
		+ Accuracy
		+Skirmish
		When you 
		Animals
		
	Spacer LEECH
		0 1 1 0 0
		Recipes:
			Stimpack - Complicated
			Bomb
			landmine
			Anathema Scent
			Enticing Scent
		You may expend special armor to reduce the consequence of chemical effects, or to gain +1 effect when handling chemicals.
		When you Study a malady or corpse, take 1 Momentum.
		More resources when foraging
		Weak spot
		Explosives
		
	Runner LURK - SCOUNDREL
		1 1 0 0 0
		Recipes:
			Climbing gear
			Lockpick
		When you scavenge and succeed, you can additionally choose the following option:
			You may take an additional day action after this (You may only do this once per day).
		Scale walls & Pick locks
		When you attack from hiding or activate a trap, take +1d.
		When you roll with zero effect, take +1d. Any harm you take as a consequence is one level higher.
		Spend 1 Momentum: double movement or direct an attack at you at an enemy.
		Choose a skill. When you are leader using that skill, you can only suffer harm once regardless of failures.
		Expend special armor to remain undetected.
		
		
	Broker SPIDER/PRIEST
		0 0 1 1 0
		When you rest, you may choose the following action:
			Grant another player an additional daytime action. You may only do this once per day.
		compel human
		Encourage
			Spend 1 Momentum: Target player stands up if they are knocked down, and their next attack made before the end of their next turn gets +1d.
		Allies in your zone get +1 Grit, +1 Finesse, +1 Acuity, or +1 Influence
		
	Far Traveller / Stranger / Outsider WHISPER
		0 0 1 0 1
		Foresee event
		Foresee intent
		Compel Beast
		Life sense
		
HERITAGE
	Core World
	Militant world
	Cyberpunk world
	Pastoral world
	Spacer colony
	frozen world
	scattered people

DAYLIGHT
	threats & resolution outside of the night should be without combat

	Each morning, every player who did not mark a level-4 harm the previous night reduce all harm by 1 and gain 1 xp. Then, all players mark level 1 harm: Hungry.
	While scavenging, players will find Supply. Players can spend supply to eat, refuel the generator, or reload a weapon
	Each day, each player can perform two actions
		Raid
		Scout
		Scavenge
			Roll on your best skill.
				Determine supply gained by effect level:
					Zero: None
					Limited: 1
					Standard: 1d3
					Great: 2d3
					Extreme: 2d4
					
				On a mixed success, choose one:
					You suffer level-2 harm of the referee's choice and find supply.
					You lose a day action (only if this is your first action of the day) and find supply.
					You return empty-handed.
					
				On a success, choose one:
					You take +1 effect and find supply.
					You find supply and a place to relax (reduce one harm 1 level).
					You find supply and something useful (referee's choice).
					
				On a critical success, you either find an item of your choice, or choose two from above.
			If multiple people work together on an outing, choose a leader. Each team member makes a roll. The result is the best result, but the leader suffers level 1 harm for each fumble rolled.
		Rest
			During this time, you can take any of the following actions once each:
				Cook: Spend 1 supply and reduce all harm 1 level.
				Study: use an object you've obtained to gain information.
				Craft: Choose a recipe you know. If the recipe is simple, you do it. If the recipe is complicated, spend 1 supply and roll on Acuity:
					On a fumble, you waste the resources.
					On a mixed success, you do it, but choose 1:
						the created item has -1 effect (if applicable)
						halved amount (if applicable)
						you suffer level 1 harm of the referee's choice.
					On a success, you do it.
					On a critical success, you do it, and choose one:
						the created item has +1 effect (if applicable)
						doubled amount
						you manage to minimize resource cost, regain the supply spent.
					
				Base recipes:
					Filter mask
		
		Players can acquire new sequences for the replicator to print.

	Base has
		Generator that requires fuel
			Every Raid may acquire 2/3 Night fuel on average per person
		Healing upgrades: oven, well
	
ENEMIES
	Dogs, 2 damage. 1 damage recoils them
	Creeping Mold / Ants
	Siren, screams causing deafness and blindness
	Wolf - Priority token
		(give players a way to fuck with priority tokens)
	L4D Special infected
	
	Encounters should answer the following questions:
		- What makes splitting up a bad idea?
		- What makes the players do it anyway?
			Enemies that must be approached
			Enemies that attack the generator
		
		
Colonial construction resources include:
	Administrative NHP
	genetic variance library
	printers
	colony ship w/ prefab habitation pods
	drones
	medical supplies
	pan-biome seed libraries
	
	
Why was the colony abandoned?
	They discovered something. Did they take it? Did they use it?
	The colony was built to fail, to hide from the coalition
	It's a training ground for a bioweapon, disguised as a failed colony
	it was supposed to be a jurassic park
	
	
Annapurna
The 